Assignment - Software Development Engineering (Web)

Car Rental Agency

1. Assume you are designing a real-life system that will be used by real users.
2. The application should contain 2 types of users: Customers and the Car Rental Agency
3. Pages to be developed-
● ‘Registration’ pages - Different registration pages for customers & car rental
agencies.
● ‘Login’ pages - Single/different login pages for customers & car rental agencies.
● ‘Add new cars’ page - A Car rental agency, once logged in, should be able to
add details of new cars available for rental. Details to add
○ Vehicle model, Vehicle number, seating capacity, rent per day
Access to this page should be restricted only to the car rental agency. Car rental
agencies should also be able to edit the details of a particular car
● ‘Available cars to rent’ page - There should be a page that displays all the
available cars to rent. Details to display -
○ Vehicle model, Vehicle number, seating capacity, rent per day
○ Capture input as a dropdown for the number of days the customer needs
to rent the car (This input only be shown when the customer is logged in)
○ Capture start date (This input only be shown when the customer is
logged in)
○ ‘Rent Car’ button.
This page should be accessible to everyone, irrespective of whether the user is
logged in or not. Expected functionality on click of the ‘Rent Car’ button-
○ Only customers should be able to book the available car by clicking the
‘Rent Car’ button.
○ If the customer is not logged in, then he/she should be redirected to the
login page.
○ If a user is logged in as an agency, then the user should not be allowed to
book the available car

● Car Agency ‘View booked cars’ page - Agency should be able to see the list of
all the customers who have booked a particular car added by them.

Technologies:
4. Please write the front-end in HTML/CSS/JS. You may use Bootstrap if you wish.
5. Please write the backend in either core PHP or the PHP Codeigniter framework. Use
MySQL as the database.
Mainly, we want you to concentrate on the following things:
1. Neat & simple design
2. Good database architecture
3. Good coding practices (write readable, modular code)